# The-Cheese
This repository documents the design and construction of a sensor that measures changes in water clarity due to wave action.

The water clarity sensor uses image recognition analysis of ball markers at known distances from the camera to calculate visibility distance in a water column. The sensor takes pressure readings at 5 Hz and takes an image to be analyzed every 100 pressure samples. The goal of the sensor is to correlate water clarity and suspended sediment concentrations to wave intensity in coastal environments. Water clarity can impact benthic organisms who rely on visible water to navigate and hunt. Additionally, cloudy water attenuates light more quickly and can reduce primary production rates in coastal photosynthesizing organisms.

Project summary:
A current study was carried out to provide a better understanding of the effects of wave intensity on suspended sediment concentrations in coastal environments. Sediment grain disruptions, generally caused by boat traffic, increase the mortality rates of species and disrupt photosynthesis. Studying sediment disturbances alongside wave energy is important for determining possible commercial and recreational regulations surrounding marine environments. While utilizing our designed and built sensor, we predict that as the measured wave intensity increases in Puget Sound, the measured suspended sediment concentration increase as well. This is due to increased wave energy resulting in increased sediment transport based on the grain size and magnitude of the wave intensity. With our sensor, we will measure the presence of a wave through pressure readings and shifts in suspended sediment concentrations with digital camera imagery. The instrument will take a picture and readings across the pressure sensor to sense the amount of suspended sediment stirred up with the occurrence of a wave. We experienced challenges across all aspects of the instrument design; from the initially considered components and appearance to the coding process and marker programming. The sensor’s deployment site is the Mukilteo T Dock chosen for its diversity in sediment grain size and isolated location. The date for our deployment is during Memorial Day weekend; a convenient holiday associated with heavy boat traffic and recreational wave energy. Eventually, through a familiar cycle of trial and error, we were able to achieve a functional sensor known to us as The Cheese. 
